guys Isaac is not a stranger to me and
Isaac and I are not in a situation where
one or the other of us is avoiding
having a debate or like there's a debate
challenge one side there isn't isn't
taking up I think that some of Isaac's
viewers are just so accustomed to that
being the situation they're so
accustomed to seeing Isaac come on
YouTube and denounce people with coarse
language saying why don't you debate me
you blank blank blank long list of
exploited assaults did they assume this
is a situation you and I and it's not at
all Isaac and I have our differences but
our differences ethical political and
otherwise are largely outside the dotted
line of veganism proper questions of
vegan politics if Isaac were to chat
with me tomorrow I would probably just
ask him very open-ended questions of
pragmatics and what I say pragmatics I
mean the most pragmatic of pragmatic
questions like what are you planning to
do in the next six months what are your
plans the next five years for veganism
as a movement and you know for what he
can do in his role as someone who now
has step forward as a leader in the
vegan movement which is what he is I
mean there's no doubt about that
and I do think that Isaac is someone who
has fundamentally good intentions within
that dotted square he's someone who
wants to see progress for the vegan
movement he wants to see you know this
movement step forward he wants to
veganism as a diet and a lifestyle and a
moral no ideology really you know become
something very dominant influential in
Canada the United States if not the
world more broadly so you know with
those good intentions haven't been noted
that's really all I'd have to ask him
it's not as if there's some outstanding
bone of contention to debate the other
side is as I've said in open this video
he and I aren't strangers we probably
spoke over the phone it's not really the
telephone we spoke by a internet voice
chat but let's use the word phone we
spoke over the phone for some like three
hours back when I was in China and I did
challenge him
I had we had a conversation that I would
say was challenging for him on quite a
long list of issues including you know
issues of race and racism questions
about the biological determinants of
intelligence and I mean at that time I
think he was very much on the influence
of right-wing rehabilitations of a book
called the bell curve a book that has
been broadly discredited as as bad
science or what if you want to say as a
racist in its intense and as you know
not valid in its in its data in its in
its factual claims and so on um you know
and I assume he's moved on to some
extent we also had I think a reasonably
deep and broad conversation about
democracy in Canada for example we
talked to quite some length about the
extent to which native people in Canada
indigenous people like the Cree the
achieve way the Mohawk to what extent
they are and are not represented in our
parliamentary system how the
parliamentary system has been designed
how it works now it fails to work in
representing those people or in theory
any special interest in Canada and I
think it is fair to say at that time I
think he would have said himself that I
did just challenged him by presenting
him with a lot of facts a lot of
considerations that were outside the
scope of anything he had read about or
really thought about before it was just
an alien and intellectually stimulating
perspective for him to hear but those
conversations were not particularly
hostile and so you know I mean maybe it
just is the genre that ask yourself has
created that people assume there's some
kind of ROI roiling debate coming
between he and I but let me ask you to
ask yourself this you know audience if
you're one of these people who's
rattling your chains demanding that I
debate ask yourself or something you
know what is your answer to the question
of what you're gonna do for veganism in
the next six months what is your answer
to the question of what you're gonna do
for this movement
in the next five years it's not really
something we can debate in this hostile
sense but it's something we probably can
all benefit from sharing our experiences
and opinions and the options we're
considering one of the major things
that's changed in my life since the last
conversation I had with Isaac is that
I've enrolled to go to a cuisine at
school to go to a college that teaches
cooking and baking I'm gonna pursue a
degree as a baker and you know as part
and parcel of that I've pointed out some
recent videos we have a lot of baking
equipment here now we're already
starting to study and prior to speaking
here around the apartment why am i doing
that well I can tell you this if I
wasn't involved in vegan political
ideology if I wasn't involved in
veganism as a movement if I wasn't an
aspiring vegan activist I would have
absolutely no reason to be pursuing the
Diploma in baking to be learning at a
baked in a formal College program so
that's a radical and fundamental change
in my long-term career outlook the more
I'm looking at working in the back of
the kitchen and probably washing a lot
of dishes and scrubbing down a lot of
mixing machines and prefers and all that
stuff I'm looking at that to try to
create a basis for meaningful vegan
activism in the future this movement now
you know I think at any given time the
last time I talked to Isaac he was
thinking about putting together a kind
of political roundtable of people with
contrasting opinions and trying to do
something like a podcast or discussion
group where I don't know once a week or
once a month or something these people
with contrasting opinions talk when you
have a conversation like that it's not
gonna be a debate it's gonna be like
well each side is probably said this is
what I've been looking at doing this is
something I've been thinking about
trying here are my concerns here are my
hopes here my expectations I see no
reason in terms of what's within the
dotted line of veganism why Isaac and I
couldn't have a totally a productive a
polite conversation along those lines
because even if what he and I are
considering doing for the future of the
begin women is completely different if
we're using completely different set of
strategies and tactics it's clear that
each of us in our way is looking to make
a positive contribution of the future of
the movement and we both have the best
intentions within those dotted lines now
you guys already know do I think that
Isaac has the best of intentions when
he's making excuses for the racism of
Cory McCarthy no I don't there are a lot
of political issues I think outside of
an alien to veganism where he takes
positions that from my perspective are
just kind of bumpkin ignorant and deeply
embarrassing and I hope one day he moves
on it becomes more sophisticated and
more well-read and he looks back at that
and laughs one of my real problems with
direct action everywhere DXE is that
they never look back and laugh that's a
movement that's changed a lot they keep
moving the goal posts they keep
rewriting their unwritten Constitution
but you never get them admitting that
they made a mistake or even admitting
that they made a change they changed
things than they lied to you as if
that's what they've represented all
along I find that very dishonest I think
that Isaac is at a stage in his life
where inevitably he's gonna both learn
new things and adopt new attitudes and
look back at what he believed in a
assumed or said in the past and laugh at
it and that's perfectly healthy and
perfectly normal on that I wish him the
best but again it's not something we can
really debate I'll say something else I
do think that Isaac lacks the hubris to
imagine that what he's doing is what
everybody ought to do I don't think that
Isaac thinks I don't think he presumes
that I should live the same life he's
leading or that my youtube-channel
should imitate his and believe me I've
dealt with other people vegans and
vegans on YouTube where that really is
that resumption mmm I think Isaac is
aware that he's a somewhat eccentric
figure and to some extent he's a
dissident not just a dissonant within
Canadian culture or than the Western
political milieu generally he's a
dissonant even within veganism
he's on a somewhat narrow eccentric path
that very few other people could walk or
would want to walk and I can say that
about myself also to some extent
I can say that you know I'm aware that
the things that make me happy would make
other people miserable that the choices
I make morally ethically politically
personally and professionally in terms
of scholarship and research these are
not it's not for everyone
well so that is a particular type of
hubris that he lacks and said that I
like there's a link below this video you
guys can click on some of you might have
already seen this just a few days ago I
received a message from a young person
who was contemplating suicide and then I
tried to offer some advice they were
part of that I'm not gonna be the whole
thing here but I opened my advice to
this suicidal seventeen-year-old with
the following caveat I said quote
there's a parallel here in offering
advice to this person there's a parallel
here to the advice that I would offer
you about diet people ask me what should
I eat in a reply I have to say I can
tell you what I eat but I can't tell you
what you should eat I eat a lot of
broccoli every day I eat broccoli beans
and bread I think plenty of people would
basically go crazy if they eat the same
diet that I eat they couldn't tolerate
it or couldn't cope with it I can't
really recommend it to others likewise
my own nihilistic philosophy and yes it
has a playlist you can go to the
playlist section of this channel and
check out those videos my own nihilistic
philosophy isn't something that I can
easily recommend to others this is the
first big cavity to state before
offering advice of any kind so end of
quote I think this is something that
Isaac and I have in common is that each
of us is aware of our own idiosyncrasy
and we lack the hubris to try to impose
it upon others by the same token that
idiosyncrasy that eccentricity
has taken he and I down very different
paths and outside the dotted line of
pragmatic questions of what can we do
and what should we do
as individuals for veganism there are
indeed deep ethical and political
differences that separate us but guys
it's not the case that he's avoiding a
debate know that I've devoted my debate
nor that you can mark it on your
calendars when he and I will clash
swords because simply put I think
there's nothing for us to clash over